Data ingestion gcs doc 1136 (#20)
tigergraph/gui-docs: modules/graphstudio/pages/map-data-to-graph.adoc

. Map data file columns to vertex/edge fields
. Publish data mapping

== Select a data source type

GraphStudio supports loading data from local files on the TigerGraph server, from files stored on Amazon S3, or from files stored on Google Cloud Storage (GCS).

Click the Add Data File button image:add_data_source_btn.png[] in the toolbar to add data files.

image::choose-a-data-source-type.png[]

* If you select *Local File*, no more configuration is needed. Skip the sections for external sources and go to btn:[Map Data To Graph].
* For *AWS S3*, skip to the section <<_create_s3_data_source>>.

> * For *Google Cloud Storage*, skip to the section <<_create_gcs_data_source>>.

Reviewer: It looks like the link here is still not working yet. It also looks like this:
<img width="561" alt="Screen Shot 2022-05-12 at 1 40 04 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/81188193/168164115-ccd02f00-f681-496a-a157-ee180c2f2868.png">

== Add data files

A data file is a file containing structured data to be loaded into the graph, creating vertex and/or edge instances.
After specifying your data source type, the next step is to specify your data files.

This section contains subsections for each data source.

* Local File System - <<_add_local_data_file>>
* AWS S3 - <<_create_s3_data_source>>

> * GCS - <<_create_gcs_data_source>>

Reviewer: It looks like the link here is still not working yet. It also looks like this:
<img width="309" alt="Screen Shot 2022-05-12 at 1 41 13 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/81188193/168164261-5e4c397c-c97c-4ecc-9fce-b1fd8e638c57.png">

> == Select a data source

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== Select a data source type
```

> GraphStudio supports loading data from local files on the TigerGraph server, from files stored on Amazon S3, or from files stored on Google Cloud Services (GCS).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
GraphStudio supports loading data from local files on the TigerGraph server, from files stored on Amazon S3, or from files stored on Google Cloud Storage (GCS).
```

Click the Add Data File button image:add_data_source_btn.png[] in the toolbar to add data files.

image::choose-a-data-source-type.png[]

* If you select *Local File*, no more configuration is needed. Skip the sections for external sources and go to btn:[Map Data To Graph].
* For *AWS S3*, skip to the section <<_create_s3_data_source>>.
* For *Google Cloud Storage*, skip to the section <<_create_gcs_data_source>>.

== Add data files

A data file is a file containing structured data to be loaded into the graph, creating vertex and/or edge instances.

> After specifying your data source, the next step is to specify your data files.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After specifying your data source type, the next step is to specify your data files.
```

====

Confirm that the data has parsed correctly (see <<Configure the File Parser>>) and click btn:[ADD] to add the data source to your project, where it will appear in the working panel.

Continue with <<Map data files to vertex type or edge type>>.

=== Create a GCS data source

After clicking btn:[Local File] when selecting a data source type, you will be prompted to enter a custom name for your GCS data source.

image::add-data-source-from-gcs.png[]

Underneath the name line, upload your GCS account key file. Google provides a guide on generating and downloading key files at this link: link:https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/creating-managing-service-account-keys#getting_a_service_account_key[Getting a service account key].

After you enter your key, enter the gsutil URI for your data file in your Google Cloud Storage bucket.

image::gcs-data-source.png[]

In addition to single files, TigerGraph also supports loading an entire folder by entering the gsutil URI for that folder.

All data files in this folder must share the same data schema.
The folder preview, like the file preview, is limited to the first ten lines of uploaded data.

> If a folder contains more than one file, only the first ten lines of the first file will appear in the preview.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If a folder contains more than one file and the first file has more than ten lines, only the first ten lines of the first file will appear in the preview.
```

[NOTE]
====
TigerGraph supports loading from archived and compressed S3 files directly.
Currently supported file extensions include zip, tar.gz, tgz and tar.
GraphStudio detects the file extension and automatically chooses the corresponding file format.
If the file is encoded with one of these formats but has a non-standard file extension, you can manually specify the file format.
====

After clicking the btn:[ADD] button, your data will appear in the working panel.

Continue with <<Map data files to vertex type or edge type>>

=== Create a GCS data source

After clicking btn:[Local File] when selecting a data source type, you will be prompted to enter a custom name for your GCS data source.

image::add-data-source-from-gcs.png[]

Underneath the name line, upload your GCS account key file. Google provides a guide on generating and downloading key files at this link: link:https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/creating-managing-service-account-keys#getting_a_service_account_key[Getting a service account key].

> After you enter your key, enter the URI for your data file in your Google Cloud Storage bucket.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After you enter your key, enter the gsutil URI for your data file in your Google Cloud Storage bucket.
```

Currently supported file extensions include zip, tar.gz, tgz and tar.
GraphStudio detects the file extension and automatically chooses the corresponding file format.
If the file is encoded with one of these formats but has a non-standard file extension, you can manually specify the file format.
====

After clicking the btn:[ADD] button, your data will appear in the working panel.

Continue with <<Map data files to vertex type or edge type>>

=== Create a GCS data source

After clicking btn:[Local File] when selecting a data source type, you will be prompted to enter a custom name for your GCS data source.

image::add-data-source-from-gcs.png[]

Underneath the name line, upload your GCS account key file. Google provides a guide on generating and downloading key files at this link: link:https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/creating-managing-service-account-keys#getting_a_service_account_key[Getting a service account key].

After you enter your key, enter the gsutil URI for your data file in your Google Cloud Storage bucket.

image::gcs-data-source.png[]

In addition to single files, TigerGraph also supports loading an entire folder by entering the gsutil URI for that folder.

> All data files in this folder must share the same data schema. When uploading a folder, the file preview is limited to the first 10 lines.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All data files in this folder must share the same data schema. Both the file preview and folder preview are limited to the first 10 lines.
```

In fact, we always limit the preview to the first 10 lines, either for adding a file or a folder. The tricky thing is that the user might expect to preview all the files in the folder, but we only support previewing the first 10 lines in this folder.

- If the folder has only 1 file, which has > 10 lines, we will show the first 10 lines.
- If the folder has 3 files, each has > 10 lines, we will show the first 10 lines of the first file.
- If the folder has 3 files, each has 3 lines, we will show all 9 lines.

I'd imagine that the users would have a lot of confusion around this topic. It'll be great if we can explain it in detail in the user doc.
